## Uni1 off to a good start

### October 31st, 2019 - by Filip Mihov

After winning in the first round, the first University team won in the second round as well against Witney2. The match was played at Rose Hill Methodist Church on October 31st.

The first game to finish was board 1 between FM Victor Vasiesiu and Miguel Ballester. Victor having the white pieces played an interesting sideline in the French defense and posed serious problems to his opponent who wasn’t familiar with the theory. White got a pleasant edge out of the opening and went on to win a nice game.

After not managing to create any serious chances in her game, Yuting Fu drew as white on the fifth board. Her opponent was Neil Buchanan.

Yours truly tried a sideline in the Sicilian defense with the white pieces and (as it usually happens) failed to gain any particular advantage. However black, Graham Cole, played some slow moves and allowed white’s typical kingside attack to get stronger and stronger until a queen sacrifice finally forced resignation.

Victory was secured by Nick Clanchy who won with the black pieces in a Kings Indian. After white, Cyril Foster, went for the typical idea Ng5-e6, Nick calmly took the knight, won the pawn on e6 and converted his material advantage with patient and precise play.

By this point the match was already decided and there were two boards remaining. FM Dan Abbas played a strange game where it seemed like he should have obtained an advantage because his lovely centralized knight on d4 and white’s weak color complex on the dark squares. However, he was unable to find a clear path and after several failing attempts to muddy the waters, he bailed out into a perpetual check. Nalin Kadadwala handled the complications very well, so draw was agreed.

The last game to finish was the sixth board between Callum Evans and Asif Hameed. It was a very interesting dynamic game which ended in a threefold repetition. 

Overall, good performance and fighting chess by both teams. Our next match is on November 7th home against Banbury1. 