## Oxford victorious over Imperial to win the Valentine Cup

### Saturday 23rd November
### Oxford takes back the Valentine 

Against all odds, we managed to steal a victory on this one. Special shout out to Joris for securing a draw against IM Li Tian Yeoh, the 2-time champion of national champion for Malaysia and owner of a GM norm. Convincing strength in depth from all.

| Board |            Oxford             | Result  |        Imperial        |
|:-----:|:-----------------------------:|:-------:|:----------------------:|
|   1   |      Joris Gerlagh (221)      | 0.5-0.5 | IM Li Tian Yeoh (260)  |
|   2   | FM Akshaya Kalaiyalahan (200) | 0.5-0.5 |   FM Aron Teh (212)    |
|   3   |       Richard Zhu (190)       |   1-0   |  Aluna Rizzoli (174)   |
|   4   |    Andrew Rogozinski (182)    | 0.5-0.5 | Elliott Macneil  (156) |
|   5   |      Aloysius Lip (171)       |   1-0   |    Tony Wang (161)     |
|   6   |   Alexander Hardwick (169)    |   0-1   |   Imran Rahman (137)   |
|   7   |        Yuting Fu (154)        |   1-0   |   Nikunj Sinha (132)   |
| Total |                               | 4.5-2.5 |                        |

On board 1, Joris Gerlagh challenged IM Li Tian Yeoh, Malaysia Chess Champion in 2015 and 2016. Joris remarks:

> Though I already knew I would almost certainly be playing Ti Lian, I had only prepared with the black pieces, unfortunate when I came up with white after the coin toss. I then decided to play a sideline against the Dutch defence so that neither of us would know the opening theory.

Proceeding with a quick exchange of all minor pieces in the early midgame, though slightly worse due to piece inactivity, Joris sacrificed a pawn to gain a kingside attack and achieved an entirely drawn rook endgame during the time scramble, in which a draw was quickly agreed.

After an opening inaccuracy in the Tarrasch QGD from my opponent, Richard was left on board 3 with an IQP position with very little compensation for the pawn weakness. The middlegame was mostly quiet and he was able to take trades into a favrouable endgame, which he converted by winning Black's Queen-Pawn.

After Akshaya had misplayed the opening, her opponent on Board 2 opponent made a crucial mistake in simplifying the position by exchanging knights, enabling her to launch an affront on the queenside. Although the position was mostly equal in the middlegame, she nevertheless had an edge due to her superior pawn structure. After a few moves of relentless maneuvering, she was eventually able to win a pawn as her opponent failed to notice a potential tactic involving a skewer. However, despite having an extra pawn in the endgame, she decided to repeat the position as she barely had 20 seconds left, and her opponent was defending excellently, resulting in a perpetual. 

After an opening inaccuracy in the Tarrasch QGD from my opponent, Richard's oppoonent was left with an IQP position with very little compensation for the pawn weakness. The middlegame was mostly quiet and so Richard was able to take trades into a favourable endgame, which he converted by winning Black's Queen-Pawn.

On board 4, Andrew had a messy game in the King's Indian Fianchetto variation. He managed to win a pawn on the queenside after some lines opened, but his opponent had some pressure with his active pieces. Various complications ensued, and with both players quite low on time, the game ended in a draw when the Imperial player failed to spot a winning plan in the endgame and liquidated instead.

On board 5, Aloysius ruthlessly steamrolled his hapless opponent in a Nimzo-Indian Samisch, executing a deadly rook-lift on move 15 which skewered black's queen to his kingside. Imperial's board 5 simply declined to defend, offering up a piece to belay the attack which Aloysius promptly declined in favour of trapping the queen. A time-pressured clean-up secured the win. [Study link](https://lichess.org/study/UuqkigYF/EHV7RKKg)

Alex Hardwick played a Najdorf Sicilian, and decided to wander into a ...e5 Boleslavsky structure and see if "just understanding the basic positional principles" would be enough to win the game. For a while, this plan seemed to work surprisingly well. White's odd decision to recapture on d5 (and remove Black's biggest weakness) gave Black a delightful menu of counterplay choices. White then decided to go for an immensely slow kingside attack with h4, g4 etc, which gave Black all the time in the world to pick an option. Unfortunately, while delightfully spoiled for choice, Alex made a fatal error. He rushed the tempting ...b5 pawn break, which allowed White's knight to lodge in the very heart of his position on c6 and win a metric shit-tonne of material. After briefly attempting to play on while down a bishop for two rooks, Alex resigned to concede Oxford's only loss of the day.

On board 7, Yuting was unfamiliar with the old Benoni defense as white and played too aggressive to create weakness on her own side. Fortunately, her opponent missed a chance to win a pawn. On move 21, her opponent did not notice a tactic which led to a winning position for her.

We're very grateful for Imperial for coming up to Oxford to play and look forward to future matches with the team. [See the article](../images/valentines.png) on the last time the Valentine Cup was played in 2008. [Source.](https://issuu.com/rspall/docs/2008_1400_a)


<Grid photos='images/imperial1.jpg,images/imperial2.jpg,images/imperial3_3.4.jpg' enableLightbox=true ratio='4,3'/>