# A first team stretching its legs overpowers Witney

### Uni1 wins 5.5-0.5 against Witney1
### 24th October 2019 - by Filip MIhov

The new season has started and the first University team played against one of their main rivals for the title – the team of Witney1. The match was played on October 24th.

The first game to finish was board 5 between Alex (169) playing black against Alan (143). In a London system Alex played more precisely and won a pawn which turned into a miniature after a somewhat unnecessary desperado attack by white. 

On board 4, Paul had a somewhat more active position against Daniel in a Maroczy bind which came out of an English opening. He refused a draw offer in a slightly better position for him. White would have had to show some good technique had Black not blundered a pawn. After that the win was smoothly converted in a bishop endgame.

Joris won a fine game on board 2 playing the white side in a Catalan. He found interesting ways to pose problems to Lewis, and managed to end on top. By this point the Uni team was leading 3-0. 

Kiran saved a draw on board 6 against Adam playing the white pieces in an Alapin Sicilian. Black was a pawn to the good in a knight vs bishop endgame and must have been winning somehow, but Kiran defended the position living on increment for pretty much the whole endgame. 

Filip, the captain, on board 3 had a large advantage in the early middle game as black in a closed Sicilian, but blundered a full exchange in a single move. Nevertheless, he continued playing as if nothing happened, declined a draw several times and ended up pressing in a 4 vs 3 R+B vs R+B endgame with bishops of opposite colors. It seemed like black was making progress when white, Dave, blundered a full piece and had to resign.

The last game to finish was the battle between the titled players FM Victor Vasiesiu and IM Marcus Harvey. The evaluation was about even throughout the whole game, but in the endgame Marcus playing white managed to create some chances and win a pawn. Both players were in time trouble, so chances had been missed by the point when they reached the position below:

<fen src='8/8/8/8/1RK5/2P5/2r5/3k4 w - - 0 1' />
 
Victor, having only 10 seconds on the clock played Rb7 and resigned after Rg8+ because black loses a full rook. The only move that draws in this position is 1. … - Kf8! with the idea 2. Kg6 – Kg8 3. Ra5 – Rg7+!! and if white takes the rook black is in stalemate, otherwise it is a simple draw after 4. … - Rg1.

All in all a very interesting match where the Uni team had better quality on the lower boards. 
