## A multitude of fighting chess

### Uni2 team draws 3:3 Uni2 vs Cowley 3 in their first ODCL match
### 24th October 2019 - by Kevin Henbest

The University 2 chess team drew their opening match 3-3. After being 2.5-0.5 up, we then lost two games almost at the same moment and were then under pressure to scramble a draw in the last game to tie the match. George Dumitrescu managed to save the match with a fighting draw versus Maria Mate.

Board 1, Tudor, had a complex game versus young Selvaraj Hari, Tudor gave up the exchange for some compensation but the initiative turned out to be ephemeral. White missed many wining before finding the correct plan.

Board 2, Dilhan had a cramped position from the opening, and poorer placed pieces and Black managed to convert his advantage into active queenside play and picked up pawns with his Queen, however during that time White generated enough counter play to secure the draw.

Board 3, Jack on had a nice tactical win, crashing through vs Neil.

Board 4, Tom had much the better of the position for most of his game but in a complex two rooks endgame Asif’s passed pawn finally gave him some initiative and tied up Tom’s rook and the game slipped away from Tom. It was a sharp position.

Board 5 George had a very interesting game which had a complex middle game, Maria had what looked like a dominating attacking position but George hung on and simplified into a pawn endgame that was race on both sides of the board and Maria had more pawns but it is not clear how Maria missed winning chances and the game was finally drawn in a time scramble.

Board 6, Shree, won a nice game, gaining the advantage of two bishops then picking up a pawn and then invading on good outposts to win a nice positional game. 

Overall lots of fighting chess games from two very evenly matched teams.