## Oxford pipped in friendly matches against Warwick

### Sunday 1st December - by Aloysius Lip
### University of Warwick

Sunday's match against Warwick was beset by an onslaught of difficulties, from struggling to find players, to transport complications, to clock troubles. Nevertheless, our Oxford first team and second team put in a strong challenge against Warwick's, finishing just short of a victory with 2.5-3.5 in both matches.

| Board |          Oxford I          | Result  |        Warwick I        |
|:-----:|:--------------------------:|:-------:|:-----------------------:|
|   1   |    Joris Gerlagh (221)     |   0-1   |    FM Sam Chow (226)    |
|   2   |  FM Victor Vasiesiu (210)  | 0.5-0.5 |     Guy Moss (217)      |
|   3   |     Aloysius Lip (171)     |   1-0   | FM Ninoslav Pesic (219) |
|   4   | Alexandre Warr-Esser (170) |   0-1   |    Louise Head (200)    |
|   5   |     Hashim Jusoh (161)     |   0-1   |   Andy Pollock (175)    |
|   6   |     Tudor Enescu (162)     |   1-0   |  Jonathan Fowler (174)  |
| Total |                            | 2.5-3.5 |                         |

| Board |        Oxford II        | Result  |      Warwick II       |
|:-----:|:-----------------------:|:-------:|:---------------------:|
|   1   |  Taylor Pearson (150)   |   1-0   | William Thomas (158)  |
|   2   |  Dilhan Manawadu (126)  |   1-0   | Benedick Moricz (157) |
|   3   | Christopher Finn (106R) | 0.5-0.5 |   Daniel Koltai (-)   |
|   4   |   Donald Flynn (115R)   |   0-1   |     Saso Nikk (-)     |
|   5   |   Gregor Aubrey (109)   |   0-1   |  Daniel Muir  (138)   |
|   6   |    Stefan Enescu (-)    |   0-1   |    Nur Izzah (120)    |
| Total |                         | 2.5-3.5 |                       |

Our Oxford warriors had the odds set against them from the start against the Warwick opposition. First off, we had a total of 4 confirmed for a 12-board match not two days before the match start. Frantic messaging and some favours called in from long-time players only just clinched us a full roster ready for the match. Disaster then struck when we accidentally leaked our whole team list to the Warwick side, posting to our Facebook group of which the Warwick captain was an intruder due to his advertisements of the Warwick rapidplay a week earlier. The Warwick team were kind enough to send us their team list in fair play in response. Only then did we discover that they'd poached to our finest - the Boards 1 of both their teams, FM Sam Chow and William Thomas are proud Oxford alumni. Fuming at the cheek of it, we set off on many a bus and train to Warwick, with one number short - Hashim hurried after us, a train behind - and one down for the count - though there in body, our captain Aloysius was absent in the mind having had a heavy one at a ball the night previous.

Nevertheless, we all arrived safely in Warwick and readied ourselves for our matches, surrounded (I might add) by medieval swordplay equipment and a depleted Warwick team, owing to their tradition of organising 5-a-side football socials on a Sunday. Anyway, once we'd sat and said our prayers to our Lord and Saviours Optiver, as one must do when attending any chess event at Warwick University, the matches were off.

Things looked like they were swiftly turning around for Oxford. A 15-move victory for the now-sober Aloysius on Board 3 against a reconditioning FM gave us a quick headstart swiftly followed by a slow crush on board 6 by the elder Enescu brother. This was unfortunately mirrored in the second team by losses by late draft Donald Flynn on board 4 and the younger Enescu on board 6.

2-0 up first team, 0-2 down second team. Games looking good on all the remaining boards.

From here, things just didn't go Oxford's way. The second team sustained a further loss and a draw on boards 3 and 5; hard fought but nonetheless definitive, concluding the match on the second team. Taylor and Dilhan's strongly fought subsequent victories then came in, brave-hearted, yet futile. Meanwhile on the first team, a strong defence by Joris against Sam Chow on board 1 suddenly crumbled, taking us from what had been a -+ or at the very least a ∓ to a loss. Secondly, a sure-fire win on Board 2 turned out to be drawn despite all appearances. Victor conceded to his opponent's persistent perpetual requests, bringing us to an agonisingly close 2.5-1.5.

Finally, tragedy struck as both final boards came under serious time pressure. Both Hashim and Alex had played their ways to incredibly close, slightly worse-off, endgame positions. From there they went their separate ways. Hashim suffered under the time pressure to concede an otherwise bravely-fought game. Alex dominanted his opponent's time pressure and started gaining the advantage, comfortably maneuvering Rook and Good Knight vs Rook and Bad Bishop. From there however, Alex,solely-focussed on his game, ignorant of the 2.5-2.5 score at that final moment, simply sat still for 2 minutes on the clock, after which his opponent promptly pointed out that he had run out of time. Despair all-round. Oxford 2.5-3.5 Warwick.

And so Oxford trudged back, disappointed as can be. Hungry, however, for a rematch.

Our team and Warwick's hope to make this event a termly thing, so a rematch shall be forthcoming! Though we might have lost, the matches was a success most of all for inter-university collaboration. The coming terms will bring more and more matches! Our thanks to Warwick for hosting us.