## Oxford makes a triumphant return to the 2020chess

### Saturday 25th January - by Aloysius Lip
### University of Birmingham

The 2020chess championship, previously known as the Northern Universities Chess Championship (NUCC), is an annual Charity chess tournament. Its format is a team rapidplay, with a 4 regional qualifiers across the country and 1 grand final. We attended the Birmingham Qualifier on Saturday and we won with a perfect score, in-keeping with our long-standing reputation as second-ever victors of the NUCC when it launched in 2016. It raises money for Oxfam. This qualifier raised over £320.

This year, with the Qualifiers in Birmingham and in a rapidplay mood, all pumped up for our rapidplay tournament against LSE that would be happening the following day, we sent up a team of four of our best to Birmingham:

1. Joris Geralgh (221)
2. Filip Mihov (223)
3. Andrew Rogozinski (182)
4. Aloysius Lip (171)

In all respects, we smashed it out the park, coming away with a team score of 5.5 and individual scores by Filip and Aloysius of 5/5 each.

Our first round opponents were the University of Bath, a highly comical affair as we'd arrived 1 minute before the close of registration and the round-start owing to a delayed train, so were somewhat in a state of fluster when we sat down at our boards. The whole situation was made more bizarre as two minutes into the tournament's start, Aloysius mated his opponent on Board 4 and promptly went off to get lunch, Joris followed suit some 5 minutes later. That left Andrew and Filip battling out against their respective hard-fighting opponents, to bring home a 4-0 win.

Round 2 and we played Warwick, our local university rivals in the Midlands. We brought home a comfortable 3-1 victory here, spotting some familiar faces on their side from our match against them last term.

There were 18 teams competing in a Swiss system, so round 3 paired against the "Durham Alumni", with only 4 teams still on a perfect score. This round had the unusual feature of the tournament organiser playing on Board 4, himself a Durham alumni, and high-pressued, long-lasting games across the board. 

In round 4 we played our toughest match; a club called Broadlands which featured a variety of local enthusiasts, from an Oxford Alumni to a junior. Filip firmly put the latter in his place with crushing middlegame play that would have cowered even the sharpest of players; Aloysius ensnared the former in a set of tactics to win a piece and a mating nate; another victory ensued here.

The final round was the battle to secure an outright victory. The team beat Manchester University's first team, though both teams qualified through to the final.

The club took home a set of medals, certificates, vouchers to various chess resources, and £100 in cash prizes, which we have donated back to Oxfam to support the tournament's cause. Onwards to the final!

Other notable occurrences:

- Filip: "That was the best tournament I ever played in my life"
- Andrew: "F*ck I hung a piece again, but it's ok I drew"

<Carousel src='../images/2020' enableLightbox=true ratio='16,9'/>